touchscreen/README.md, before:

### Touchscreen configuration
From linux 4.15 on, the `silead` mainline kernel module should work ok, as long as you provide a valid firmware.
Different firmwares can be downloaded from [onitake/gsl-firmware](https://github.com/onitake/gsl-firmware)
(the ones named `firmware.fw`).
The closest one to my tablet is
[this one](https://github.com/onitake/gsl-firmware/raw/master/firmware/chuwi/hi10-pro-z8350-Hi10_HQ64G42170704809/firmware.fw).

The firmware needs to be copied to `/usr/lib/firmware/silead/mssl1680.fw`

### Calibration
The calibration is done using the `libinput` driver. My device calibration matrix is stored in
[50-touchscreen.rules](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danielotero/linux-on-hi10/master/touchscreen/50-touchscreen.rules),
which is an [udev rules](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Udev) configuration file that must be copied to
`/etc/udev/rules.d/`. Documentation of the specific libinput variable can be found
[here](https://wayland.freedesktop.org/libinput/doc/1.2.1/udev_config.html).

In the X server, you will need to map the touchscreen input to the output every time the later changes. Here is a
sample script to rotate the screen:
```Bash
#!/bin/bash

set -e

TOUCHSCREEN='silead_ts'
OUTPUT='DSI1'

if [ -z "$1" ]; then
  ROTATION=right
else
  ROTATION=$1
fi

xrandr --output "$OUTPUT" --rotate "$ROTATION"
xinput --map-to-output "$TOUCHSCREEN" "$OUTPUT"

```

#### Calibration process
The calibration process was done manually using the description found
[here](https://wayland.freedesktop.org/libinput/doc/1.2.1/group__config.html#ga09a798f58cc601edd2797780096e9804).
For my screen the values were interpreted as follows:
`LIBINPUT_CALIBRATION_MATRIX=0 <y-scale> <y-offset> <x-scale> 0 <x-offset>`

where:

 - **`y-scale`** is vertical scaling factor
 - **`y-offset`** is the vertical offset from the bottom-left corner of the screen
 - **`x-scale`** is horizontal scaling factor
 - **`x-offset`** is the horizontal offset from the bottom-left corner of the screen

Commit message:

Add custom silead kernel driver

touchscreen/README.md, after:

### Touchscreen configuration
From linux 4.15 on, the `silead` mainline kernel module should work ok, as long as you provide a valid firmware.
Different firmwares can be downloaded from [onitake/gsl-firmware](https://github.com/onitake/gsl-firmware)
(the ones named `firmware.fw`).
The closest one to my tablet is
[this one](https://github.com/onitake/gsl-firmware/raw/master/firmware/chuwi/hi10-pro-z8350-Hi10_HQ64G42170704809/firmware.fw).

The firmware needs to be copied to `/usr/lib/firmware/silead/` with a custom name depending on the device (or `mssl1680.fw` by default). Take a look at [silead_dmi.c](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/cacd9759eea2f1c7e8792ecd91ed4602f963b1a5/drivers/platform/x86/silead_dmi.c) to
see the DMI match expressions and the corresponding driver properties.

### Adapting kernel driver
It the driver doesn't work right, you can try tunning the driver parameters. This folder contains a copy
of the [silead kernel driver](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/drivers/input/touchscreen/silead.c)
modified with some functions to tune the driver.

You will need the kernel headers installed and the `silead` module not loaded.
Then:
 - Modify the `touchscreen_properties` struct in `silead-test.c` with better values.
 - Execute `make test`.
 - Test the device.
 - Rinse and repeat.



### Calibration
The calibration is done using the `libinput` driver. My device calibration matrix is stored in
[50-touchscreen.rules](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danielotero/linux-on-hi10/master/touchscreen/50-touchscreen.rules),
which is an [udev rules](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Udev) configuration file that must be copied to
`/etc/udev/rules.d/`. Documentation of the specific libinput variable can be found
[here](https://wayland.freedesktop.org/libinput/doc/1.2.1/udev_config.html).

In the X server, you will need to map the touchscreen input to the output every time the later changes. Here is a
sample script to rotate the screen:
```Bash
#!/bin/bash

set -e

TOUCHSCREEN='silead_ts'
OUTPUT='DSI1'

if [ -z "$1" ]; then
  ROTATION=right
else
  ROTATION=$1
fi

xrandr --output "$OUTPUT" --rotate "$ROTATION"
xinput --map-to-output "$TOUCHSCREEN" "$OUTPUT"

```

#### Calibration process
The calibration process was done manually using the description found
[here](https://wayland.freedesktop.org/libinput/doc/1.2.1/group__config.html#ga09a798f58cc601edd2797780096e9804).
For my screen the values were interpreted as follows:
`LIBINPUT_CALIBRATION_MATRIX=0 <y-scale> <y-offset> <x-scale> 0 <x-offset>`

where:

 - **`y-scale`** is vertical scaling factor
 - **`y-offset`** is the vertical offset from the bottom-left corner of the screen
 - **`x-scale`** is horizontal scaling factor
 - **`x-offset`** is the horizontal offset from the bottom-left corner of the screen
